Akiva to manatee from go to PNG cut away
put a large social motive online Alma
what's your function buddy Sean I have
to say that your question is a full of
prejudice and against China and
arrogance where I don't know where that
come from
apart from being a useful word in
general our man is a great example of
the type of vocabulary you will not
learn from textbooks you will not learn
from official vocabulary lists you will
not learn from university courses but it
is in fact a word in very frequent very
common usage that you need to know this
word is not found in the HSK list and
most of the textbooks using university
programs are directly based on the HSK
vocabulary list and it's also not found
in the TOC full vocabulary list the
Taiwanese competitor to hsk so this is a
really important really commonly used
word that the politician employs here
that you need to know in Chinese but
there's this strange implicit sense of
censorship in terms of what gets into
the textbooks and what doesn't so this
kind of this kind of slightly insulting
vocabulary just does not make it into
the lessons for foreigners and it's a
word you really need to know so this is
one of many reasons why studying the
Chinese language as it is used by
members of the Chinese Communist
government is useful and instructive of
course we also learn something about the
reality of the political situation in
China so the sentence he says and you're
gonna hear it again later in this video
or if you want to you can rewind a
course and hear it again at the start of
the video is well pooja Tong show made'
Fong lied to a man and he says it much
more rapidly than I - this arrogance
like I don't even know where it's coming
from and structurally the part of that
sentence that's difficult for a
foreigner to remember is the use of lie
so from where
what place it's coming song Shimada
found lie we would naturally tend to
leave out the lie and of course if
you're a beginner in Chinese it is a
little bit strange to us that almond is
at the very end of the sentence but the
more you speak read and write Chinese
the more normal that starts the scene so
a very simple sentence in terms of how
people actually use almond and spoken
Chinese Tom on the again it's very clear
that this is complaining it's not really
a descriptive statement of fact it has a
negative connotation you can pair em
I'll mat with duay you can say something
like Tod way woman title man that are
Samantha's typed away wool huh no man I
searched around the internet and I found
that that type of sentence construction
was only appearing in text books was
only appearing in lessons given to
foreigners and that Chinese people
themselves were not using it at least
not in written speech in the internet so
this is another way in which textbooks
and official wordless official
vocabulary lists can be misleading in
terms of how people actually use the
language no reason for it I'm not saying
you can't
pero man with duay but you know it's
worthwhile to take that moment and check
if the examples you're working from in a
dictionary or text book if they're
misleading or not in this case they are
but there's a simple usage a moment and
here's a slightly more literary sounding
example this comes from a newspaper
article so the arrogance and bias of the
concept of pure literature right Shawn
the same children we know from changsu
children see the owl man you can't Yin
there are no shortage of concerns about
China's treatment of human rights
advocates such as the Hong Kong
booksellers given these concerns why is
Canada pursuing closer ties with China
how do you plan to use that relationship
to improve human rights and security in
the region and did you typically raise
the case of the Garrett's directions
with the foreign minister today I want
to make a response to the questions
asked by this journalist about China
Yacouba tom vanity from got the PNG most
of these official statements from the
chinese government are using level 1
vocabulary most of the time they state
their meaning very plainly in very plain
language so beginner and intermediate
students really can start learning by
studying what's going on in the world's
most densely populated dictatorship and
tyranny a pretty early stage development
language so here's t1 t1 this could have
been the first word you ever learned in
the classroom because teachers tend to
use it quite a lot it's a complex
sentence that it appears in though so
needed T when do a jungle I just remind
you that normally you're going to be
pairing the verb t1 with Yong so male
Ren sangeeta t1 nobody had any questions
from her there wasn't anybody who asked
her any questions this is the kind of
construction you would expect but here
in a more complex sentence we have duay
but it's not a question being asked to
China so that the function of tie here
is completely different from the level 1
use of C on Cuba to monitor you from
going to PNG when you break it into
pieces this sentence is not too hard
not even for a beginner PNG n that I've
highlighted in red at the end of the
sentence this is prejudice bias very
negative word very negative connotations
sometimes in English we describe
something as being biased in a very
neutral or even scientific sense no no
this is a this is a word with lots of
negative connotations however the other
crucial word here that effectively
functions like a verb in the sentence is
cheolmin right so needed T when cheolmin
the three jungle to PNG n right your
question is brimming with contempt your
question is permeated with prejudice but
the interesting thing is
that cheolmin normally has a positive
connotation it can be used with positive
or negative connotations but it is more
frequently found in sentences like you
know being full of joy full of hope full
of optimism full of laughter his smile
was full of warmth this kind of thing
put your social media online Alma what's
your lunch I'm gonna show you chew I
don't wanna so you get here a sense of
the brutal simplicity of the Chinese
authoritarian style and it makes it much
easier for level 1 students to approach
he's here saying in the simplest terms
possible have you ever even been to
China obviously meant as a reproach to
the journalists in reality if the
journalist would then say that she's
actually lived in China for 10 or 20
years and has a PhD in the topic he's
still gonna reject her opinion so it's
really irrelevant it's just rhetoric
she thought don't go up so when you
could eat you are by the mall by really
solid by total Jojo question I usually
vengeance party me and you go ah GG Jima
this four character phrase you see on
screen has been used at least since 1956
when it was written by the dictator Mao
Zedong himself and this gives the sense
of the Chinese people being poor and
blank literally poor and white but this
is white in the sense of a blank sheet
of paper specifically so Chinese is full
of these four character phrases that
normally hearken back to a specific
literary source in this case this is
specifically Chinese communist
authoritarian jargon so this line of
reasoning this type of excuse making
still very common with American left
wingers with European socialists and
communists any evils on the part of the
Chinese government can be excused
because of this claim that they've
allegedly lifted people out of poverty
and backwardness
we might say any much but when the
question is asked why don't these people
get to vote why don't they have
elections why don't they have freedom of
speech why can't they criticize the
government and use
papers oh well do you even realize that
we help to lift 6 million people out of
poverty Ruka ago how the position of a
true Malucci returned without the farmer
you do not religion by Paul Hornung
chair Lee Road on the chef I don't drama
as you learn more and more vocabulary in
Chinese you also learn more ways to
structure a sentence and that's why you
have to learn each piece of vocabulary
along with some examples of how it's
used now it is not used so Don John here
does not appear at the beginning of the
sentence the way most locative particles
do the way you normally state the
location of something so he leaves it
until the end of the sentence to say
don't you even know that human rights
are protected in the constitution of
China okay so see an ephah Constitution
and you could guess the meaning here
because Phi is law also used to mean
France France is the country of laws fog
wall so CN fuh Constitution in the
Constitution human rights have been
protected so it's a little bit of a
complex sentence structure with BA
alright I admit this is not easy sense
they're not all easy guys but in the
Constitution
human rights are already protected don't
you even know that well I encourage all
of you to take the time to read the
constitution of China you're in for some
big surprises because according to the
Constitution everyone in China also gets
to vote they get to elect the government
so there are a lot of things promised to
you in the constitution of China rights
that people don't get to exercise
privileges the people of China have
never received but sure your human
rights along with and including
universal suffrage in the right to vote
are written down on paper in the
constitution of China where they are
ignored by everyone not just this
particular journalist well cousin see
you logic to mothers in China Trump are
pushing
as a tumour entity we will find you our
turmoil value do you know that China has
written protection and promotion of
human rights into our Constitution and
those who other people don't know better
than the Chinese people about the human
rights condition in China and it's the
Chinese people who are in the best
situation could the in the best position
to have say about China's human rights
situation so I would like to suggest you
that please don't ask questions in such
an irresponsible manner and we welcome
Goodwell suggestions but we reject
groundless or unwarranted accusations
[Music]